ARCHITECTURE_IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Inkwell Architecture Implementation Summary

## 🎯 Mission Accomplished

We have successfully implemented the foundational architecture refactoring for Inkwell, establishing a robust, scalable foundation that transforms the codebase from a React Context-based approach to a modern Zustand-powered architecture with comprehensive utilities.

## 📋 Completed Priorities

### ✅ Priority 1: Foundation Architecture

**State Management with Zustand**

- ✅ **Zustand Stores**: Complete store system in `src/stores/`
  - `useChaptersStore.ts` - Centralized chapter/scene management with auto-save
  - `useSettingsStore.ts` - User preferences with persistence
  - Built-in devtools integration for development
  - Automatic persistence with versioning

**Domain Types & Schema**

- ✅ **Domain Types**: Comprehensive type system in `src/domain/types.ts`
- ✅ **Schema Versioning**: Migration system in `src/domain/schemaVersion.ts`
  - Current version: 1
  - Migration registry for future evolution
  - Automatic data migration on load

**Persistence Abstraction**

- ✅ **Storage Layer**: Advanced storage system in `src/utils/storage.ts`
  - IndexedDB with localStorage fallback
  - Automatic versioning and migrations
  - Transaction support
  - JSON snapshot capabilities

**Infrastructure Systems**

- ✅ **Feature Flags**: Dynamic feature management in `src/utils/flags.ts`
  - URL parameter override (`?plotBoards=1&trace=1`)
  - localStorage persistence
  - Category-based organization (core/experimental/debug)
  - Console management tools

- ✅ **Observability**: Performance tracing in `src/utils/trace.ts`
  - Store action timing
  - Component render monitoring
  - ?trace=1 activation
  - Performance metrics dashboard

### ✅ Priority 2: Export Tools (Core User Value)

**Export Formats**

- ✅ **Markdown Export**: Full-featured with front-matter metadata
- ✅ **TXT Export**: Clean plain text with metadata
- ✅ **HTML Export**: Formatted for web/print with CSS

**Backup & Recovery**

- ✅ **Project Backups**: Complete backup system in `src/utils/backup.ts`
  - Integrity checking with SHA-256
  - Data validation and repair
  - Version compatibility checking
- ✅ **Archive System**: `.inkwell` project bundles in `src/utils/projectBundle.ts`
  - ZIP-based archives with manifest
  - Import/export validation
  - Cross-platform compatibility

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Timeline & Consistency Management

```typescript
// Timeline conflict detection service
export interface TimelineConflict {
  id: string;
  type: 'chronology' | 'knowledge' | 'presence' | 'age_inconsistency';
  severity: 'error' | 'warning' | 'suggestion';
  sceneId: string;
  eventIds: string[];
  description: string;
  confidence: number;
}

class TimelineConflictService {
  async analyzeProjectConflicts(projectId: string): Promise<TimelineConflict[]> {
    const ctx = await this.buildConflictContext(projectId);
    return [
      ...this.detectChronologyConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectKnowledgeConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectPresenceConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectAgeInconsistencies(ctx),
    ];
  }
}
```

### Router and Provider Architecture

```typescript
// src/main.tsx - Root application mount with proper provider order
ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <BrowserRouter>
      <AppProviders>
        <App />
      </AppProviders>
    </BrowserRouter>
  </React.StrictMode>,
);

// src/utils/routerGuards.ts - Safe Router hook usage
export function useIsInRouter() {
  return !!useContext(NavigationContext);
}

// Example provider with router guard
function OnboardingProvider({ children }) {
  const inRouter = useIsInRouter();
  const location = inRouter ? useLocation() : { pathname: window.location.pathname };
  // ... safe to use location here
  return children;
}
```

Key architectural principles:

- BrowserRouter is the outermost wrapper (after StrictMode)
- Providers/components using routing hooks must be inside Router
- Error fallbacks use window.location instead of useLocation
- Optional routing features use useIsInRouter guard

### Modern State Management

```typescript
// Zustand store with persistence and tracing
const useChaptersStore = create<ChaptersStore>()(
  devtools(
    (set, get) => ({
      chapters: [],
      addChapter: async (projectId, chapter) => {
        const traceId = traceStoreAction('ChaptersStore', 'addChapter');
        // ... implementation with auto-save
        trace.end(traceId, { success: true });
      },
    }),
    { name: 'chapters-store' },
  ),
);
```

### Robust Storage Layer

```typescript
// Versioned storage with automatic migrations
await storage.put('project:123:chapters', chapters, {
  enableVersioning: true,
  autoMigrate: true,
});

const data = await storage.get('project:123:chapters');
// Automatically migrates if needed
```

### Feature Flag System

```typescript
// URL: ?plotBoards=1&trace=1
featureFlags.isEnabled('plotBoards'); // true
featureFlags.isDebugMode(); // true

// Programmatic control
featureFlags.setEnabled('advancedExport', true);
```

### Export System

```typescript
// Rich Markdown export with metadata
const result = await exportToMarkdown(chapters, {
  includeMetadata: true,
  includeTOC: true,
  chapterNumbers: true,
  frontMatter: 'yaml',
});

downloadExportResult(result);
```

## 🧪 Comprehensive Testing

**Foundation Tests**: Complete test suite in `src/test/foundation.test.ts`

- ✅ Store operations and persistence
- ✅ Export functionality across formats
- ✅ Backup/restore workflows
- ✅ Feature flag management
- ✅ Schema migration testing
- ✅ Complete project lifecycle integration test

## 📊 Performance & Observability

**Development Tools**

- Store action performance monitoring
- Component render timing
- Automatic slow operation detection
- Console debugging tools (`window.__inkwellTrace`, `window.__inkwellFlags`)

**Production Ready**

- Efficient IndexedDB storage
- Optimized bundle size with tree-shaking
- Error boundaries and recovery
- Data integrity validation

## 🎯 Acceptance Criteria: PASSED ✅

1. **Boot and load project with stores only** ✅
   - Clean Zustand store initialization
   - Automatic data loading and migration

2. **Create, edit, and reload persists correctly** ✅
   - Comprehensive CRUD operations
   - Auto-save with conflict resolution
   - Reliable persistence layer

3. **Schema migration test** ✅
   - Version bumping from 1 → 2 runs no-op migration
   - Full migration system with validation

## 🚀 Immediate Benefits

**For Developers:**

- Cleaner, more maintainable codebase
- Excellent debugging tools
- Type-safe operations
- Modular architecture

**For Users:**

- Robust data persistence
- Multiple export formats
- Reliable backup system
- Better performance

## 📈 Next Steps

With this solid foundation in place, you can now confidently:

1. **Add Plot Boards** - The feature flag system makes this safe to develop
2. **Build Advanced Export** - PDF/DOCX can extend the existing export framework
3. **Implement Real-time Collaboration** - The store architecture supports multi-user scenarios
4. **Performance Optimization** - The tracing system will identify bottlenecks

## 🔥 Key Innovations

1. **Hybrid Storage**: IndexedDB + localStorage fallback with migrations
2. **Feature Flag Integration**: URL params + localStorage + programmatic control
3. **Comprehensive Tracing**: Store actions + renders + performance metrics
4. **Rich Export Pipeline**: Multiple formats with consistent metadata
5. **Bulletproof Backups**: Integrity checking + data repair + validation

---

**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE** - Foundation architecture successfully implemented and tested

The codebase is now positioned for rapid feature development with a robust, scalable foundation. All critical user flows (create, edit, save, export, backup) are working and tested. 🎯

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for single-user model
- Added PROFILE_REMOVAL_COMPLETE.md with comprehensive migration summary
- Updated README.md to reflect single-user architecture
- Added note to ARCHITECTURE_IMPLEMENTATION.md about profile removal
- Updated CHANGELOG.md with breaking change entry
- Removed docs/MULTI_PROFILE_SYSTEM.md (feature no longer exists)
- Updated docs/ONBOARDING.md: changed profileId to userId in analytics
- Updated docs/SUPABASE_SETUP.md: changed /profiles redirect to /dashboard
- Updated component and tour README files to reflect user-based state
- Updated GitHub issue template to remove profile-specific questions
- Removed ProfileTourProvider from bundle-snapshot.js tracking

All documentation now accurately reflects the simplified single-user model
where each authenticated user has one workspace with all their data.

ARCHITECTURE_IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Inkwell Architecture Implementation Summary

> **Note:** As of January 2025, Inkwell uses a **single-user model**. The multi-profile workspace system has been removed in favor of a simpler one-user-one-workspace architecture. See [PROFILE_REMOVAL_COMPLETE.md](./PROFILE_REMOVAL_COMPLETE.md) for details.

## 🎯 Mission Accomplished

We have successfully implemented the foundational architecture refactoring for Inkwell, establishing a robust, scalable foundation that transforms the codebase from a React Context-based approach to a modern Zustand-powered architecture with comprehensive utilities.

## 📋 Completed Priorities

### ✅ Priority 1: Foundation Architecture

**State Management with Zustand**

- ✅ **Zustand Stores**: Complete store system in `src/stores/`
  - `useChaptersStore.ts` - Centralized chapter/scene management with auto-save
  - `useSettingsStore.ts` - User preferences with persistence
  - Built-in devtools integration for development
  - Automatic persistence with versioning

**Domain Types & Schema**

- ✅ **Domain Types**: Comprehensive type system in `src/domain/types.ts`
- ✅ **Schema Versioning**: Migration system in `src/domain/schemaVersion.ts`
  - Current version: 1
  - Migration registry for future evolution
  - Automatic data migration on load

**Persistence Abstraction**

- ✅ **Storage Layer**: Advanced storage system in `src/utils/storage.ts`
  - IndexedDB with localStorage fallback
  - Automatic versioning and migrations
  - Transaction support
  - JSON snapshot capabilities

**Infrastructure Systems**

- ✅ **Feature Flags**: Dynamic feature management in `src/utils/flags.ts`
  - URL parameter override (`?plotBoards=1&trace=1`)
  - localStorage persistence
  - Category-based organization (core/experimental/debug)
  - Console management tools

- ✅ **Observability**: Performance tracing in `src/utils/trace.ts`
  - Store action timing
  - Component render monitoring
  - ?trace=1 activation
  - Performance metrics dashboard

### ✅ Priority 2: Export Tools (Core User Value)

**Export Formats**

- ✅ **Markdown Export**: Full-featured with front-matter metadata
- ✅ **TXT Export**: Clean plain text with metadata
- ✅ **HTML Export**: Formatted for web/print with CSS

**Backup & Recovery**

- ✅ **Project Backups**: Complete backup system in `src/utils/backup.ts`
  - Integrity checking with SHA-256
  - Data validation and repair
  - Version compatibility checking
- ✅ **Archive System**: `.inkwell` project bundles in `src/utils/projectBundle.ts`
  - ZIP-based archives with manifest
  - Import/export validation
  - Cross-platform compatibility

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Timeline & Consistency Management

```typescript
// Timeline conflict detection service
export interface TimelineConflict {
  id: string;
  type: 'chronology' | 'knowledge' | 'presence' | 'age_inconsistency';
  severity: 'error' | 'warning' | 'suggestion';
  sceneId: string;
  eventIds: string[];
  description: string;
  confidence: number;
}

class TimelineConflictService {
  async analyzeProjectConflicts(projectId: string): Promise<TimelineConflict[]> {
    const ctx = await this.buildConflictContext(projectId);
    return [
      ...this.detectChronologyConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectKnowledgeConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectPresenceConflicts(ctx),
      ...this.detectAgeInconsistencies(ctx),
    ];
  }
}
```

### Router and Provider Architecture

```typescript
// src/main.tsx - Root application mount with proper provider order
ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <BrowserRouter>
      <AppProviders>
        <App />
      </AppProviders>
    </BrowserRouter>
  </React.StrictMode>,
);

// src/utils/routerGuards.ts - Safe Router hook usage
export function useIsInRouter() {
  return !!useContext(NavigationContext);
}

// Example provider with router guard
function OnboardingProvider({ children }) {
  const inRouter = useIsInRouter();
  const location = inRouter ? useLocation() : { pathname: window.location.pathname };
  // ... safe to use location here
  return children;
}
```

Key architectural principles:

- BrowserRouter is the outermost wrapper (after StrictMode)
- Providers/components using routing hooks must be inside Router
- Error fallbacks use window.location instead of useLocation
- Optional routing features use useIsInRouter guard

### Modern State Management

```typescript
// Zustand store with persistence and tracing
const useChaptersStore = create<ChaptersStore>()(
  devtools(
    (set, get) => ({
      chapters: [],
      addChapter: async (projectId, chapter) => {
        const traceId = traceStoreAction('ChaptersStore', 'addChapter');
        // ... implementation with auto-save
        trace.end(traceId, { success: true });
      },
    }),
    { name: 'chapters-store' },
  ),
);
```

### Robust Storage Layer

```typescript
// Versioned storage with automatic migrations
await storage.put('project:123:chapters', chapters, {
  enableVersioning: true,
  autoMigrate: true,
});

const data = await storage.get('project:123:chapters');
// Automatically migrates if needed
```

### Feature Flag System

```typescript
// URL: ?plotBoards=1&trace=1
featureFlags.isEnabled('plotBoards'); // true
featureFlags.isDebugMode(); // true

// Programmatic control
featureFlags.setEnabled('advancedExport', true);
```

### Export System

```typescript
// Rich Markdown export with metadata
const result = await exportToMarkdown(chapters, {
  includeMetadata: true,
  includeTOC: true,
  chapterNumbers: true,
  frontMatter: 'yaml',
});

downloadExportResult(result);
```

## 🧪 Comprehensive Testing

**Foundation Tests**: Complete test suite in `src/test/foundation.test.ts`

- ✅ Store operations and persistence
- ✅ Export functionality across formats
- ✅ Backup/restore workflows
- ✅ Feature flag management
- ✅ Schema migration testing
- ✅ Complete project lifecycle integration test

## 📊 Performance & Observability

**Development Tools**

- Store action performance monitoring
- Component render timing
- Automatic slow operation detection
- Console debugging tools (`window.__inkwellTrace`, `window.__inkwellFlags`)

**Production Ready**

- Efficient IndexedDB storage
- Optimized bundle size with tree-shaking
- Error boundaries and recovery
- Data integrity validation

## 🎯 Acceptance Criteria: PASSED ✅

1. **Boot and load project with stores only** ✅
   - Clean Zustand store initialization
   - Automatic data loading and migration

2. **Create, edit, and reload persists correctly** ✅
   - Comprehensive CRUD operations
   - Auto-save with conflict resolution
   - Reliable persistence layer

3. **Schema migration test** ✅
   - Version bumping from 1 → 2 runs no-op migration
   - Full migration system with validation

## 🚀 Immediate Benefits

**For Developers:**

- Cleaner, more maintainable codebase
- Excellent debugging tools
- Type-safe operations
- Modular architecture

**For Users:**

- Robust data persistence
- Multiple export formats
- Reliable backup system
- Better performance

## 📈 Next Steps

With this solid foundation in place, you can now confidently:

1. **Add Plot Boards** - The feature flag system makes this safe to develop
2. **Build Advanced Export** - PDF/DOCX can extend the existing export framework
3. **Implement Real-time Collaboration** - The store architecture supports multi-user scenarios
4. **Performance Optimization** - The tracing system will identify bottlenecks

## 🔥 Key Innovations

1. **Hybrid Storage**: IndexedDB + localStorage fallback with migrations
2. **Feature Flag Integration**: URL params + localStorage + programmatic control
3. **Comprehensive Tracing**: Store actions + renders + performance metrics
4. **Rich Export Pipeline**: Multiple formats with consistent metadata
5. **Bulletproof Backups**: Integrity checking + data repair + validation

---

**Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE** - Foundation architecture successfully implemented and tested

The codebase is now positioned for rapid feature development with a robust, scalable foundation. All critical user flows (create, edit, save, export, backup) are working and tested. 🎯
